---
layout: post
title: "The Dynamic Window Approach to Collision Avoidance"
usemathjax: true
date: 2022-07-05
--- 

<script type="text/javascript"
  src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.0/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS_CHTML">
</script>
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
  MathJax.Hub.Config({
    tex2jax: {
      inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']],
      processEscapes: true},
      jax: ["input/TeX","input/MathML","input/AsciiMath","output/CommonHTML"],
      extensions: ["tex2jax.js","mml2jax.js","asciimath2jax.js","MathMenu.js","MathZoom.js","AssistiveMML.js", "[Contrib]/a11y/accessibility-menu.js"],
      TeX: {
      extensions: ["AMSmath.js","AMSsymbols.js","noErrors.js","noUndefined.js"],
      equationNumbers: {
      autoNumber: "AMS"
      }
    }
  });
</script>

I have spent a good portion of my summer research internship reading papers about path and trajectory planning for robots as a 
way to familiarize myself with the concepts that I am employing while coding or learning new software. 
My advisor recommended that I read *The Dynamic Window Approach to Collision Avoidance* written by Fox, Burgard and Thrun. 
Below is a summary of what I understood from the paper.

$x = y^2$

## The Issue  
The authors of this paper propose a novel approach to reactive collision avoidancve for synchro-drive mobile robots called dyanmic windows. In short, the dynamic window approach is employed to 
reduce the search space that the robot needs to evaluate when navigating through an environment with obstacles. The dynamic window is a set of velocities that get the robot to its goal while also avoiding obstacles along the way. 

## Related Work 
Besides dynamic based trajecotry planning, there are two other common approaches: potential-field based and sampling based. 

# Potential-Field Based Approach 
field blagh blalh 

# Sampling Based Approach 
sampoling blah blah 

## Methodology 

# Why this is important:

In the field of mobile robotics research one of the most important goals is to be able to have a robot that can carry out goals and find its way in hazardous or populated environments that it has not encountered before. As the authors write:

> To build autonomous mobile robots, one has to build systems that can perceive their environments, react to unforeseen circumstances and (re)plan dynamically in order to achieve their missions.

# Important Equations 
$V_d = V$



> The dynamic window V_d is defined as above where (v,w) is a velocity vector of linear velocity (v) and angular velocity (w) given that v is a value between the range of admissible velocities from the current velocity minus the maximum deceleration * time interval to get to admissible velocity AND admissible velocities from the current velocity plus the maximum acceleration * time interval to get to the admissible velocity. This is the same for the angular velocity. EQUATION 15 



# Dynamic Window Pseudocode 

Below is a walk-through of the dynamic window approach: 
1. Calculate the desired velocity to the goal based on current position and the destination (go fast if robot is far away, slow if close the destination)

2. Select the allowable velocities for the dynamic window given the vehicle dynamics

3. Search through all of the admissible velocities 
4. For each velocity, determine the closest obstacle for the proposed robot velocity 
5. Determine if the distance to the closest obstacle is within the robots breaking distance. If the robot will not be able to stop in time, disregard this proposed velocity. 
6. Otherwise, the velocity is admissible, so we can calculate values for the objective function (I.e. the heading and clearance) \
7. Calculate the cost for the proposed velocity. If the cost is better than anything else so far, set proposed velocity as the best option. 
8. Set robot trajectory to the best proposed velocity 







## Conclusion 
